readme.md, before:

# Resound 🔉

Resound is a library for applying sound effects when playing sounds back with Ebitengine. Resound was made primarily for game development, as you might expect.

## Why did you make this?

C'mon man, you already know what it is

The general advantages of using Resound is two-fold. Firstly, it allows you to easily add non-standard effects (like low-pass filtering, distortion, or panning) to sound or music playback. Secondly, it allows you to easily apply these effects across multiple groups of sounds, like a DSP. The general idea of using buses / channels is, again, taken from how [Godot](https://godotengine.org/) does things, along with other DAWs and music creation tools, like Renoise, Reason, and SunVox.

## How do I use it?

There's a couple of different ways.

1) Create effects and play an audio stream through them. The effects themselves satisfy `io.ReadSeeker`, like an ordinary audio stream from Ebitengine, so you can chain them together.

```go

// Let's assume our sound is read in or embedded as a series of bytes.
var soundBytes []byte

const sampleRate = 44100

func main() {

    // So first, we'll create an audio context, decode some bytes into a stream,
    // create a loop, etc. 
    context := audio.NewContext(sampleRate)

    reader := bytes.NewReader(soundBytes)

	stream, err := vorbis.DecodeWithSampleRate(sampleRate, reader)

	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	loop := audio.NewInfiniteLoop(stream, stream.Length())

    // But here, we'll create a Delay effect and apply it.
    delay := resound.NewDelay(loop).SetWait(0.1).SetStrength(0.2)

    // Effects in Resound wrap streams (including other effects), so you can just use them
    // like you would an ordinary audio stream in Ebitengine.

    // You can also easily chain effects by using resound.ChainEffects().

    // Now we create a new player of the loop + delay:
	player, err := audio.NewPlayer(context, delay)

	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

    // Play it, and you're good to go.
	player.Play()

}

```

2) Apply effects to a DSP Channel, and then play sounds through there. This allows you to automatically play sounds back using various shared properties (a shared volume, shared panning, shared filter, etc).

```go

// Let's, again, assume our sound is read in or embedded as a series of bytes.
var soundBytes []byte

// Here, though, we'll be creating a DSPChannel.
var dsp *resound.DSPChannel

const sampleRate = 44100

func main() {

    // So first, we'll create an audio context, decode some bytes into a stream,
    // create a loop, etc. 
    context := audio.NewContext(sampleRate)

    reader := bytes.NewReader(soundBytes)

    stream, err := vorbis.DecodeWithSampleRate(sampleRate, reader)

    if err != nil {
	panic(err)
    }

    loop := audio.NewInfiniteLoop(stream, stream.Length())

    // But here, we create a DSPChannel. A DSPChannel represents a group of effects
    // that sound streams play through. When playing a stream through a DSPChannel,
    // the stream takes on the effects applied to the DSPChannel. We don't have to
    // pass a stream to effects when used with a DSPChannel, because every stream
    // played through the channel takes the effect.
    dsp = resound.NewDSPChannel(context)
    dsp.AddEffect("delay", NewDelay(nil).SetWait(0.1).SetStrength(0.25))
    dsp.AddEffect("distort", NewDistort(nil).SetStrength(0.25))
    dsp.AddEffect("volume", NewVolume(nil).SetStrength(0.25))

    // Now we create a new player from the DSP channel. This will return a
    // *resound.ChannelPlayback object, which works similarly to an audio.Player
    // (in fact, it embeds the *audio.Player).
    player := dsp.CreatePlayer(loop)

    // Play it, and you're good to go, again - this time, it will run its playback
    // through the effect stack in the DSPChannel, in this case Delay > Distort > Volume.
	player.Play()

}

```

## What is implemented?

- [ ] Global Stop - Tracking playing sounds to globally stop all sounds that are playing back
- [ ] DSPChannel Stop - ^, but for a DSP channel

### Effects

- [X] Volume
- [X] Pan
- [X] Delay
- [X] Distortion
- [X] Low-pass Filter
- [X] Bitcrush (?)
- [ ] High-pass Filter
- [ ] Reverb
- [ ] Mix / Fade (between two streams, or between a stream and silence, and over a customizeable time)
- [ ] Loop (like, looping a signal after so much time has passed)
- [ ] Pitch shifting (playback using effectively a lower / higher sample rate?)
- [ ] 3D Sound (quick and easy panning and volume adjustment based on distance from listener to source)

### Generators

- [ ] Silence
- [ ] Static

  ... And whatever else may be necessary.

# Known Issues

- Currently, effects directly apply on top of streams, which means that any effects that could make streams longer (like reverbs or delays) will get cut off if the stream ends.

Commit message:

Adding AudioProperties type to analyze audio streams. Adding AudioBuffer.String(). Adding Volume.SetNormalizationFactor(), which allows you to normalize audio streams. Updating go.mod dependencies.

readme.md, after:

# Resound 🔉

Resound is a library for applying sound effects when playing sounds back with Ebitengine. Resound was made primarily for game development, as you might expect.

## Why did you make this?

C'mon man, you already know what it is

The general advantages of using Resound is two-fold. Firstly, it allows you to easily add non-standard effects (like low-pass filtering, distortion, or panning) to sound or music playback. Secondly, it allows you to easily apply these effects across multiple groups of sounds, like a DSP. The general idea of using buses / channels is, again, taken from how [Godot](https://godotengine.org/) does things, along with other DAWs and music creation tools, like Renoise, Reason, and SunVox.

## How do I use it?

There's a couple of different ways.

1) Create effects and play an audio stream through them. The effects themselves satisfy `io.ReadSeeker`, like an ordinary audio stream from Ebitengine, so you can chain them together.

```go

// Let's assume our sound is read in or embedded as a series of bytes.
var soundBytes []byte

const sampleRate = 44100

func main() {

    // So first, we'll create an audio context, decode some bytes into a stream,
    // create a loop, etc. 
    context := audio.NewContext(sampleRate)

    reader := bytes.NewReader(soundBytes)

	stream, err := vorbis.DecodeWithSampleRate(sampleRate, reader)

	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	loop := audio.NewInfiniteLoop(stream, stream.Length())

    // But here, we'll create a Delay effect and apply it.
    delay := resound.NewDelay(loop).SetWait(0.1).SetStrength(0.2)

    // Effects in Resound wrap streams (including other effects), so you can just use them
    // like you would an ordinary audio stream in Ebitengine.

    // You can also easily chain effects by using resound.ChainEffects().

    // Now we create a new player of the loop + delay:
	player, err := audio.NewPlayer(context, delay)

	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

    // Play it, and you're good to go.
	player.Play()

}

```

2) Apply effects to a DSP Channel, and then play sounds through there. This allows you to automatically play sounds back using various shared properties (a shared volume, shared panning, shared filter, etc).

```go

// Let's, again, assume our sound is read in or embedded as a series of bytes.
var soundBytes []byte

// Here, though, we'll be creating a DSPChannel.
var dsp *resound.DSPChannel

const sampleRate = 44100

func main() {

    // So first, we'll create an audio context, decode some bytes into a stream,
    // create a loop, etc. 
    context := audio.NewContext(sampleRate)

    reader := bytes.NewReader(soundBytes)

    stream, err := vorbis.DecodeWithSampleRate(sampleRate, reader)

    if err != nil {
	panic(err)
    }

    loop := audio.NewInfiniteLoop(stream, stream.Length())

    // But here, we create a DSPChannel. A DSPChannel represents a group of effects
    // that sound streams play through. When playing a stream through a DSPChannel,
    // the stream takes on the effects applied to the DSPChannel. We don't have to
    // pass a stream to effects when used with a DSPChannel, because every stream
    // played through the channel takes the effect.
    dsp = resound.NewDSPChannel(context)
    dsp.AddEffect("delay", NewDelay(nil).SetWait(0.1).SetStrength(0.25))
    dsp.AddEffect("distort", NewDistort(nil).SetStrength(0.25))
    dsp.AddEffect("volume", NewVolume(nil).SetStrength(0.25))

    // Now we create a new player from the DSP channel. This will return a
    // *resound.ChannelPlayback object, which works similarly to an audio.Player
    // (in fact, it embeds the *audio.Player).
    player := dsp.CreatePlayer(loop)

    // Play it, and you're good to go, again - this time, it will run its playback
    // through the effect stack in the DSPChannel, in this case Delay > Distort > Volume.
	player.Play()

}

```

## To-do

- [ ] Global Stop - Tracking playing sounds to globally stop all sounds that are playing back
- [ ] DSPChannel Stop - ^, but for a DSP channel
- [x] Volume normalization - done through the AudioProperties struct.

### Effects

- [X] Volume
- [X] Pan
- [X] Delay
- [X] Distortion
- [X] Low-pass Filter
- [X] Bitcrush (?)
- [ ] High-pass Filter
- [ ] Reverb
- [ ] Mix / Fade (between two streams, or between a stream and silence, and over a customizeable time)
- [ ] Loop (like, looping a signal after so much time has passed or the signal ends)
- [ ] Pitch shifting (playback using effectively a lower / higher sample rate?)
- [ ] 3D Sound (quick and easy panning and volume adjustment based on distance from listener to source)

### Generators

- [ ] Silence
- [ ] Static

  ... And whatever else may be necessary.

# Known Issues

- Currently, effects directly apply on top of streams, which means that any effects that could make streams longer (like reverbs or delays) will get cut off if the source stream ends.
